# GUI Guide

## Installation

### Dependencies

The preferred way to run the GUI is via Docker.  As a result, `Docker >= 18.09` is required.  In all likelihood, older versions of Docker will work but these have not been tested.

As with Foundations itself, there must be an accessible `redis:5` instance / installation.  See the [start guide](STARTGUIDE.md) for more information.

If you wish to build the GUI from source, we also require `Python >= 3.5` - older versions may work but have not been tested.

### Build Process

These steps are not necessary if you already have the images or can download them.  Feel free to skip if that's the case.  Otherwise:

0. If you haven't done so already, clone the Foundations repo and checkout the desired branch (probably `master`).
1. Make sure you're in the root of the Foundations repo.
2. Run the `build_gui.sh` script - this will also tag the images.

### Installation Process

0. Either build (see above for how to do that) the images or otherwise acquire them via `docker pull` or `docker load -i`.
1. Ensure that you have the `foundations-rest-api` and `foundations-gui` images installed on your system, and both have the same tag.  If not, please tag them accordingly - any syntactically valid tag will work, so long as they're the same.
2. Ensure that you have the `foundations_gui.sh` script whose version matches the image versions, e.g. if you built the images from the `master` branch, grab the `foundations_gui.sh` script from the `master` branch.

## Starting / Stopping the GUI

Make sure you have edited the `foundations_gui.sh` script as described in step 3 of the installation process!

### Starting the GUI

Before starting the GUI, you will need to set the location of your Redis installation by setting the `REDIS_URL` environment variable. Depending on where you plan to get your data from, this will need to be set to the ip address of that machine. For example, if you are trying to connect to a machine with the ip addres of `22.23.43.22`, you will need to run the following:

```bash
export REDIS_URL=redis://22.23.43.22
```

After that you can run:

`./foundations_gui.sh start ui [image_tag]`

* `image_tag` is optional - omit to use `latest` as a default

You will then be able to visit your running gui at `https://localhost:6443`

### Stopping the GUI

`./foundations_gui.sh stop ui`

## HTTPS on the GUI

The GUI by default is built with a provided self signed SSL certificate that works on localhost only. This means that you will only be able to access the GUI from localhost, and after accepting that your connection may not be secure through the browser (this is a standard self signed certificate situation). 

To get around this, you will need to supply a `key` file and `crt` file generated by a certificate authority. This can usually be done by contacting your host provider.

## Known Issues Running On OSX
There are some known issues related to networking with Docker on OSX, which could appear as we use Docker as the backend to run the GUI. Please see [the networking features documentation](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/networking/) for details and limitations.